Title: Getting and Cleaning Data Project CodeBook.mdAuthor: Camelia GuildDate: 4/1/2016R script: run_Analysis.R scriptOutput data: tidyData.txt====================================================Using the run_Analysis.R scriptDerivation of the variables in the final tidyData file was accomplished as follows:Step 1: Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set.Read in the training and test datasets from the files:• features.txt• activity_labels.txt• subject_train.txt• x_train.txt• y_train.txt• subject_test.txt• x_test.txt• y_test.txtAssign column names to the training and test data files. Create the final dataset by merging the subject_train, x_train,  and y_train with the subject_test, x_test, and y_test data.Step 2: Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.Create a vector of logical values that contains TRUE values for the ID, mean, and standard deviation columns and FALSE otherwise. Use the grepl function. Subset the final data table based on the logical vector to keep only desired columns.Step 3: Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.Merge the final data set with the activity type table to include descriptive activity names. Update the column names to include the new column names. Step 4: Appropriately label the data set with descriptive activity names.Clean up the variable names. Use the gsub function for pattern replacement and supply variables with the more descriptive activity names.Step 5: Create a second, independent tidy dataset with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. The resulting dataset, tidyData.txt, includes only the means and standard deviations of each variable for each activity on each subject. There are 180 observations and 69 variables.Variables contained in the tidyData file: [1] "activityId" (integer, range 1-6): An identifier of the six activities each person performed.                               [2] "subjectId"  (integer, range 1-30): An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.                              Note: variables [3] to [68] are numeric measurements. [3] "timeBodyAccelerometerMean-X"  [4] "timeBodyAccelerometerMean-Y"   [5] "timeBodyAccelerometerMean-Z"            [6] "timeBodyAccelerometer-std-X”                   [7] "timeBodyAccelerometer-std-Y"                              [8] "timeBodyAccelerometer-std-Z"              [9] "timeGravityAccelerometerMean-X"          [10] "timeGravityAccelerometerMean-Y"          [11] "timeGravityAccelerometerMean-Z"          [12] "timeGravityAccelerometer-std-X"          [13] "timeGravityAccelerometer-std-Y"          [14] "timeGravityAccelerometer-std-Z"          [15] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerkMean-X"         [16] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerkMean-Y"         [17] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerkMean-Z"         [18] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerk-std-X"         [19] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerk-std-Y"         [20] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerk-std-Z"         [21] "timeBodyGyroscopeMean-X"                 [22] "timeBodyGyroscopeMean-Y"                 [23] "timeBodyGyroscopeMean-Z"                 [24] "timeBodyGyroscope-std-X"                 [25] "timeBodyGyroscope-std-Y"                 [26] "timeBodyGyroscope-std-Z"                 [27] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerkMean-X"             [28] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerkMean-Y"             [29] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerkMean-Z"             [30] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerk-std-X"             [31] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerk-std-Y"             [32] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerk-std-Z"             [33] "timeBodyAccelerometerMagnitudeMean"      [34] "timeBodyAccelerometerMagnitudeStdDev"    [35] "timeGravityAccelerometerMagnitudeMean"   [36] "timeGravityAccelerometerMagnitudeStdDev" [37] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerkMagnitudeMean"  [38] "timeBodyAccelerometerJerkMagnitudeStdDev"[39] "timeBodyGyroscopeMagnitudeMean"          [40] "timeBodyGyroscopeMagnitudeStdDev"        [41] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitudeMean"      [42] "timeBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitudeStdDev"    [43] "freqBodyAccelerometerMean-X"             [44] "freqBodyAccelerometerMean-Y"             [45] "freqBodyAccelerometerMean-Z"             [46] "freqBodyAccelerometer-std-X"             [47] "freqBodyAccelerometer-std-Y"             [48] "freqBodyAccelerometer-std-Z"             [49] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerkMean-X"         [50] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerkMean-Y"         [51] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerkMean-Z"         [52] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerk-std-X"         [53] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerk-std-Y"         [54] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerk-std-Z"         [55] "freqBodyGyroscopeMean-X"                 [56] "freqBodyGyroscopeMean-Y"                 [57] "freqBodyGyroscopeMean-Z"                 [58] "freqBodyGyroscope-std-X"                 [59] "freqBodyGyroscope-std-Y"                 [60] "freqBodyGyroscope-std-Z"                 [61] "freqBodyAccelerometerMagnitudeMean"      [62] "freqBodyAccelerometerMagnitudeStdDev"    [63] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerkMagnitudeMean"  [64] "freqBodyAccelerometerJerkMagnitudeStdDev"[65] "freqBodyGyroscopeMagnitudeMean"          [66] "freqBodyGyroscopeMagnitudeStdDev"        [67] "freqBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitudeMean"      [68] "freqBodyGyroscopeJerkMagnitudeStdDev"    [69] "activityType” (factor, 6 levels): Gives the names of the six activities performed. 1= “Walking”, 2= “Walking_Upstairs”, 3= “Walking_Downstairs”, 4= “Sitting”, 5= “Standing”, 6= “Laying”.       