================================================================
Title: Getting and Cleaning Data Project README.mdAuthor: Camelia GuildInput data: Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset Version 1.0 (see original data source link below)Output data: tidyData.txtR script: run_Analysis.R
================================================================
The R script, run_Analysis.R, does the following:1. Downloads and unzips the data files and places them in the working directory.2. Loads the following files: activity_lables.txt, features.txt, subject_train.txt, x_train.txt, y_train.txt, subject_test.txt, x_test.txt, and y_test.txt3. Creates a training dataset and a test dataset and merges the two.4. isCreates a tidy dataset that contains the mean values and standard deviations on each variable for each activity and on each subject.
================================================================Description of the data fileThe tidyData set is derived from experimental data carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years.  Each person performed six activities (Walking, Walking_Upstairs, Walking_Downstairs, Sitting, Standing, Laying) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Mean values and standard deviations were calculated on each variable for each activity and each subject. Thus, the tidyData file contains a total of 180 observations on each of 69 variables (or 6 activity values per each subject per each measurement variable; 30*6 =180). The dataset includes the following files:=========================================1. README.md2. CodeBook.md: Describes data collection, extraction, cleaning, and transformations   on variables contained in the tidyData file.3. run_Analysis.R: Script on the derivation of the final dataset, tidyData.txt.4. tidyData.txt: This is the analysis dataset.Original data source:===============================A full description of the data used in this project can be found at The UCI Machine Learning Repository: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+SmartphonesDataset: Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset Version 1.0https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zipLicense:========Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] [1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.